# Recitation 20: Stack Smashing
### Thursday Apr 27, 2017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ----- Class Notes -----

NOTE: read original _Smashing the Stack for Fun and Profit_       
=> @ [Stack Smash](http://insecure.org/stf/smashstack.html)    

- "back in the day MIT students were all C hackrz"
- Rinard teaches the compiler class

- C is designed to be a assembly language replacement, so it is low level enough to interact directly with the machine. Therefore, it allows the user to do things which can corrupt data.
____________
- Python
- [   ] <= MIT Ignorance gap
- x86
____________

- Code is in memory
- allocate memory to the heap
```c
p = malloc(10)
free(p)

```

- randomize stack frame helps prevent standard stack smash attack
    - return to stdio
    - heap attack

1. Become more knowledgeable about the MIT ignorance gap
2. Theres always the rubber hose attack. Security is very wide.

people are doing more social engineering and phishing is more lucrative than code injection attacks.


## ----- Reading Notes ------

##### Beyond smashing

Families of Exploits
- Stack Smashing
- heap smashing
- pointer subterfuge
- arc injection technique (return into libc)


- Stack Buffer Overrun => Static Memory
- Heap Buffer Overrun => Dynamic Memory


##### Notes from _Smashing the Stack for Fun and Profit_
- "smashing the stack" means using the C language to corrupt the execution stack by writing past the end of an array.
- returns from the routine can to jump to random addresses
- Static Variables => Allocated at load time
- Dynamic Variables => Allocated at run time
- stack-based buffer overflows => overflowed dynamic buffers

/------------------\  lower
|                  |  memory
|       Text       |  addresses
|                  |
|------------------|
|   (Initialized)  |
|        Data      |
|  (Uninitialized) |
|------------------|
|                  |
|       Stack      |  higher
|                  |  memory
\------------------/  addresses

- A (SP) stack pointer points to the top of the stack
- A (FP/BP) is a base pointer, which acts as a fixed point in the stack.
    - local variables could be declared by giving an index away from this pointer.
    - the base pointer allows for variable locality.
- Procedure prolog: before any procedure:
    - save previous BP
    - sets the SP as the BP




##### Reading Questions:

* The authors describe a variety of attacks. What is the root cause that allows these attacks to occur?
    - The root cause that allows things to occur is that in C and C++, there are no checks to see if the size of local variables extends past the amount of memory they're allotted. This allows a user to overwrite other portions of the stack, like the return address, and then execute arbitrary code. This is called using stack buffer overruns.

* Pick one of the attacks. How does it exploit that root cause?
    - In arc injection, variables are supplied which overrun the buffer and modify the return address of some function call. The return address is modified to return and execute part of the C `system` library, after the validity check. This part of the library allows for spawning new processes, and allows the attack to execute code or read data that is on the system.

* Why doesn't the C language prevent the root cause of these attacks?
    - C is C because it has a lot of these freedoms. Its purpose is not to be a high level language like Java. C did make attempts to fix these vulnerabilities by supplying safer functions like strncpy to strcpy. The strncpy accepts an arg n, which is the maximum size string to copy. Fixing C involves writing smarter code, not just "updating libraries." The _root_ cause is on the programmer, not the language in my opinion.
