# Recitation 11: Data Center TCP.
## TransmissionControlProtocol - TCP
### March 21, 2017
##### Martin Rinard
-------------------------------
## ----- Recitation Notes ------

==> Control Theory stuff.
--> A thermometer in a house is a control system.
TCP, in some effect, is a control system.
- TCP has a conservative congestion system.

If you were designing a small network from scratch, you could design one that doesn't drop a single packet.
- A) its expensive. More engineering.
- B) -->

Engineering Wisdom:
- You engineer it, then you sell it.
- Fixed cost to design it, variable cost to produce it.
- Software is an unusual industry, there is pretty much only engineering/fixed cost. Networks also have variable cost to build each one.
==> Special Purpose networks are expensive and have high fixed cost AND high variable cost.

Nvidia:
- graphics
- then scientific computing
- then deep learning

Aggregate/Partition:
- n/a

**First Rule of Software**: if it aint broke dont fix it.   
- "you can do cowboy engineering at facebook and google, but not Boeing." ==> "It's not a bug, its a feature!"
- If accounting isn't letting engineers innovate, leave the company.

#### Types of improvements
RED - Random Early Dropping
- stochastically drop packets based on fullness of buffer.
ECN - Explicit Congestion Notification.
- Mark packets with a 'congestion bit'

DCTCP => proportional control.  Backs off traffic proportional to the congestion.

#### Random Shit:
- The appendix (organ) isn't actually vestigial, It provides a 'safehouse' for micro-fauna of the stomach.
--------------------------------
## --------- Notes from Hands-on ------------
- TCP/IP is a **Best-effort Network**

**TCP uses a 3-way Handshake**
client    |     server
SYN      -->
        <--    SYN,ACK
ACK      -->

(at this point, the connection is established)

(when client sends some data)
data     -->   
        <--    ACK

(when server sends some data)
        <--    data
ACK      -->
...and so on...

## -------- Pre Rec ------
Skip section 3.3 except for the final paragraph, which gives an estimate for the parameter K.
Skim section 4 (Results)
Closely observe figures 15 and 19, which show the queue occupancy as a function of time, and number of sources.

Section 1 introduces the paper. Section 2 describes communication in datacenter networks. After this section, you should understand how datacenter traffic differs from "normal" Internet traffic.
Section 3 describes the DCTCP algorithm. After this section, you should understand how DCTCP compares to TCP. Does it react sooner or later to congestion than TCP does? What does a DCTCP sender do when it infers that there is congestion on the network as compared to a TCP center? What are queues in a datacenter running DCTCP like (empty? full? etc.)?
Section 4—which you should skim— gives the results of the authors' experiments. Check that the empirical results match your expectations

#### Reading Notes: Data Center TCP.
TLAs:
- **ECN** - Explicit Congestion Notification
- **RTT** - Round Trip Time

GOALs:
- Reduce Latency and increase throughput in data centers

DCTCP is better because:
- uses 90% less buffer space
- provides high burst tolerance
- DCTCP only takes 30 lines of code on top of TCP.    

##### Naive TCP Congestion Control Protocols:
- Traditional IP/TCP uses dropped packets as a sign of congestion.
- Noise in the network can give false positives for these

##### DCTCP Protocols:

1. **Delay-Based**: treat rising RTT as sign of congestion.
    - Weak, as noise in the network can give false positives and mess with the algorithm.
    - Is able to notify without dropped packets
2. **AQM** (ActiveQueueManagement): use explicit feedback from congested switches
    - Move overhead, and requires all switches to comply.
    - Is also able to notify without dropped packets.
    - DCTCP uses AQM.

The DCTCP Algorithm:
1. Packets are marked with a 1-bit flag at the switches if the switch's buffer has greater than k occupancy.
2. ECN-echo at the receiver
3. The sender maintains an estimate of what fraction of packets are marked, based on the number which were marked in the last window of data.

------------------------------------
## ---- Reading Quetions -----

- **What is the goal of DCTCP?**
The central goal of DCTCP is to greatly reduce latency (down to micro-seconds), improve throughput for foreground and background traffic, and achieve high burst tolerance in commodity datacenter shallow-buffer switches using explicit congestion notification.

- **How does DCTCP differ from TCP?**
DCTCP leverages ECN (explicit congestion notification) to do ACM (active queue management) in its congestion control protocols. Basically, instead of waiting for dropped packets, changing RTTs and inferring about congestion, DCTCP has explicit information about when a switch is congested. Whenever the switch is at some level of fullness, it begins marking packets with a 1-bit flag. The sender then makes changes based on the number of marked packets in the last congestion window.

- **Why does DCTCP differ from TCP?**
The network has a lot of noise which could cause false-positives for the parameters that TCP is watching. For instance, dropped packets or increased RTT times could be caused by other errors in the network other than congestion, and could lower throughput. This way, the rate of incoming packets can be lowered before packets get dropped, and prevent queue buildups.
