# Recitation 21: Why Cryptosystems Fail
### Tuesday, 5/2
Analysis of Attacks on ATM machines

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ----- Class Notes ------
Software Development:
- Assume Guarantee Reasoning
    - assume the precondition
    - a lot of time people write the code and the conditions

- Banks assume clients to be perfect.
- Engineers apply assume guarantee reasoning to clients (normal consumers) and cause problems.

- Prohibition: alcohol damaged the family
    - arguments for Prohibition were moralistic
    - used specific examples
    - never make abstract arguments

- Truth emerges through open conflict.
- Need transparency in debugging process.



```js
//precondition: - objects aren't null
//              - objects have values
//postconidtion: - return the sum of values             
add(o1,o2) {
    return o1.value + o2.value
}
```

## ----- Reading Notes -----


- In your mind, what is the root cause of the majority of the attacks detailed in Section 3?
    - The root cause seems to be human factors and logistics. But, there also seem to be a lot of little oversights and small programming errors which end up being largely exploited.

- Pick one of the attacks. How was that root cause exploited in that attack?
    - One of the simpler attacks is where a thief would observe an ATM user and attempt to steal their PIN. After they left, they would recover a left-behind receipt, and use the information from the receipt to reconstruct a new card. The user's account number being left on the receipt is the root cause of the exploit, along with the assumption that someone could infer their PIN by watching them enter it. It's almost a human factors error that no one assumed that everyone just tosses their receipts.

- Why wasn't the attack prevented in the first place? What could have been done to prevent it, if anything?
    - One way to prevent this attack would be to only show some of the clients account number on the receipt that is left, like "111-xxx-xx-5421" to prevent leaving valuable information on the receipt. Additionally, ATMs should have a digital touch pad for entering your PIN, and the relative locations of the numerals is randomized for each customer. That way, someone standing behind you has a much harder time guessing your password by how you type your PIN. It was not prevented in the first place because the implementers probably assumed that receipts would not be left behind and that the PIN would be entered securely (which never happens in practice).
