# Recitation 17: Concurrency Control
### April 13, 2017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ---- Class Notes -----

#### Transaction Processing System
**Transactions** => Execution guarantees

- **A** Atomicity => indivisible chunks of computation
- **C** Consistency => retain expected invariance.
- **I** Isolation => Concurrency, interference between concurrent execution
- **D** Durability => Fault tolerance, recovery,

- _Write lock_ => Exclusive access
- _Read lock_  => allows concurrent reads, but no writes.

| 1 | 2 | 5 | 4 |
  x   y   z   w

(Chunks of computation => indivisible units)
1.  t = x    
    t = t + 1   
    x = t    
    t = t - 1    
    y = t   

2.  t = x + y   
    if (t%2 == 0)    
        z = 0    
    else    
        z = x + y    

==> Data races are a heuristic concept.     
==> Even if we eliminate all data races using locking, we can still have problems. We could lock every line and still get unwanted behavior     

- SOLUTION 1: **Two Phase Locking** (2Pl)
    - the 2-phase locking ensures that when a transaction unlocks a variable, its the final state that that transaction wants the variable to be in.
    - optimize for Concurrency/Throughput
    - Large groups of transactions execute atomically.
    - Race free programs vs
- SOLUTION 2: **Write-Ahead Logging** (WAP)
    - In databases, the log is the solution to every problem.
    - Stable Log:
    - Volatile Log:

### --- Failures and Durability -----
- Disk is persistent but too slow.
    - use a buffer cache!
- What about battery-backed RAM?
    - if the machine fails and doesn't come back up, you can yank the HHD out of the machine and plug it into another.

In highly evolved society, we generate large amounts of complex laws.





## ------- Reading Notes --------------

** READ THIS PAPER => MUCH RELEVANT INFO FOR EXAM **

#### Concurrency Control and Recovery
- DBMS = Database Management System.
    - Performance, availability, and reliability demands.
- ACID properties
    - **Atomicity**
    - **Consistency**
    - **Isolation**
    - **Durability**

- Serial vs Concurrent Execution

- **WAL** => Write Ahead Logging

#### (3) Best Practices:
- (2Pl) Two Phase Locking:
    - Locking can be used to enforce serialization
    - 2Pl requires all transactions be well-formed.
    - Once a transaction has released a lock, it is not allowed to obtain any additional locks.
        1. Growing Phase (acquiring locks)
        2. Shrinking Phase (releasing locks)

-
#### OCC - Optimistic Concurrency Control:
- Locking is a _pessimistic_ technique, because its based on the assumption that transactions are likely to interfere with each other.
- OCC allow transactions to execute without any locks.
    - Transactions perform a **Validation Phase** before they are allowed to commit.
    - depend on transaction restart (not locks blocking execution)

- Multiversion Concurrency Control:
    -


- ACID Transactions suffer from a lack of flexibility.

* What is an example from the paper that illustrates the trade-off between implementing ACID transaction properties and maintaining good performance?
    - One example from the paper is Optimistic Concurrency Control protocols. These protocols primarily aim at balancing Isolation (acId) and performance. With OCC, it is _assumed_ that no interference will happen, and all the transactions are executed. A validation transaction executes concurrently to detect if conflicts arose with the other transactions executing. The validation phase does require extra system resources, and could also result in a transaction restart if conflicts occurred.

* How does that policy or technique trade off performance?
    - In the paper, the notion of optimistic Concurrency control is discussed in detail, and how it compares to pessimal control approaches such as locking. Optimistic controls usually have the upper hand in performance because with locking, there are times where a thread is stopped and waiting to obtain a lock, whereas in optimistic models there is no waiting for locks and more actions can proceed concurrently. Though, the optimistic model does require more system resources than the pessimistic model.


* Why would you use this policy or technique? (In what context, under what circumstances, etc.)
    - These policies work best when (1) system resources are abundant and (2) little data contention exists. Since these policies assume transactions to be valid, data that is not consistently resulting in data races is better. Though, in most systems the resources are not "abundant" and locking is superior.
