# Recitation 18: Consistency
### Thur 4/20

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## ------- Class Notes ---------
- key value stores vs SQL
    - its easier to implement NoSQL than SQL

- you want to pay for software because you can call someone to fix it
- using key value stores is like living of dominos, it works and its functional, but better things exist

- sometimes its better to have a shitty product with good customer service.

- Samuel Clemens => Mark Twain => "A man with one watch always knows what time it is, a man with 2 watches is never really sure."

- Interpretation is more important than extrapolation
Performance = Latency + Throughput

-  " I bet you could breed trying out of babies with the right selective breeding in like 30 generations max." -Martin Rinard

55
#### Three Reasons to Replicate data:
1. Improve Latency
2. Improve Bandwidth (throughput)
3. Availability in the face of failures
###  Types of Consistency Models  
1. Strong Consistency
2. Eventual Consistency
3. Consistent Prefix
4. Bounded Staleness
5. Monotonic Reads
6. Read My Writes



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ----- Reading Notes --------

- What is a consistency guarantee? What aspects of a system does it affect?
    - A consistency guarantee is a protocol for dealing with data storage across a distributed system. Some examples of consistency guarantees are strong consistency, in which data is not readily available until it is consistent across all clients, and eventual consistency which allows for multiple copies of the data to be available simultaneously.
- How does a system designer choose an appropriate consistency guarantee?
    - They begin by thinking about _how_ a system operates and in what situations it requests data. The paper advocates the use of 6 different consistency guarantees (strong, eventual, consistent prefix, bounded staleness, monotonic, and 'read my writes') and highlights use cases for each. In general, its a spectrum of performance tradeoffs. At one end, strong consistency provides the most uniform data, but the worst performance, while eventual consistency provides good performance with many possible concurrent copies of data.
- Why does the choice of consistency guarantee matter?
    - Because different models have different data consistencies, and this means uncertainty about what data you will get from a database, which is never good, though it depends heavily on the use case. Strong consistency seems to be required at first, but can usually be relaxed to a minimum required level of consistency after examination.
