# Rec 24: Blockstack
### Thursday May 11, 2017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Blockstack
- Paper was very hard to read.
    - most CS papers attempt to be self contained (this one is not)

- WANT:  name => value mapping
    - can store any value you can hash
    - associate an identity with pair. (name,pubkey,hash)

- WANT: Distributed System
    - use a blockchain. A hash on a one block should match the hash on the previous
        - what if 2 blocks point to the same previous block?
        - you choose the longest (a social convention)

- Proof of Work:
    - trying to find a hash that is less than some value
    - the work is useless

- Encode <name,pubkey,hash> into the blockchain. It is in the ledger

- DHT (Distributed Hash Table)
    - large Distributed system for matching hashes to values


## Wisdom
- peter freuchen was a badass who lived in greenland
- there are known knowns;

- Argentina has capital controls (illegal to remove large amounts of wealth)
    - bitcoin can get around this.
- money is so useful it doesnt need to have value to be value

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## ------ Reading Notes -----
- Blockchains provide _append-only_ ledgers
- __PKI__ => Public Key Infrastructure
- Blockstack separates its  control plane and data plane
    - _control plane_ = blockchain/virtualchain, holds (key,hash) pairs
    - _data plane_    = data storage (S3, IPFS, etc)


- [4] Storage
- [3] Routing
- [2] Virtualchain
- [1] Blockchain

## ----- Reading Questions -------

- The paper describes Blockstack as used for a DNS replacement. What are the names and values?
    - In _BlockstackID_, a name is first registered and then transfered to a bitcoin address owned by the buyer. The names stored are the address in the namespace, and the values are the public keys which are bound via a pointer in the blockchain. This public key can then be used to generate signatures/hashes which can be compared against others to reach a consensus and determine validity.

- How does a Blockstack user look up the value associated with a name?
    - A user would first need a Blockstack client. Blockstack stores (name,hash) pairs, so that name would point to a specific hash in the blockchain. Simple name verification is done with the virtualchain to verify that the current view of the blockchain is the global view. Then, I'm not quite sure. I believe that once the hash is verified, meta data can be extracted from the virtualchain, which provides data to point to a cloud storage bucket, which could hold records and naming addresses. I tried to use https://explorer.blockstack.org/names/id to gain some more intuition, but their interface is buggy.

- Why is Blockstack designed in this way? In particular, why does it separate the control plane from the data plane?
    - Blockstack separates the control and data plane for: Modularity. More specifically, it allows interchangable pieces. Migration to different blockchains (such as from namecoin to bitcoin) do not affect the stored data, and data storage can be achieved with any cloud storage solution. Also, using blockchain a data structure is difficult. Typically, transactions only append a few kilobytes and the overall storage capacity and throughput of storing data in the blockchain would be small.
