# Recitation 11: Buffer Bloat
NOTE: Rec 10 canceled due to snow.

## 	-------------- Recitation ---------
####  β θ λ δ

## Martin Rinard
- Food is important.
- Buy a toaster oven, pressure cooker, microwave. Take your food infrastructure seriously.
- Most important commodity in life is **time**

- Buffer is designed so that a system can handle 'bursty' traffic
    - When a relationship buffer overflows and you can't take it anymore,
        - You can send them signals to stop, but they don't always work
        - You can kill the connection (walk away), and drain the queue


#### Queue Management Schemes => AQM - Active Queue Management:
- DropTail/ tail drop = Buffer holds as much as it can, drops packets when full. (Naive)
- RED - Random Early Detection = Keeps a probability variable that grows with the queue, and drops packets at this probability. (Drops packets before queues get full to trigger TCP slowdowns)
- ECN - Explicit Congestion Notification - Idea of marking packets to indicate congestion (marks packets after drop)
- DCTCP - DataCenter TCP - Algorithm which markets packets when queues are x% full, and tells the sender to hold up a bit.


#### Little's Law:
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little's_law)    
Relates latency,The long-term average number of customers in a stable system L is equal to the long-term average effective arrival rate, λ, multiplied by the average time a customer spends in the system, W; or expressed algebraically: L = λW
**queue length = latency * throughput**

### Buffer Bloat
- More is always better
- People always conflate buffer bloat with high latency and retransmissions
    - conflate - to combine ideas together

Buffer: [ | | | | | | ]
- can fill faster than can drain
- if you double the buffer size, and you only have 1 user, the latency does not change.
- BUT, if you have many users in the network competing for buffer space, packets are interleaved.
    - This will Increase latency if you add more buffer space.

How do you have small buffers, but don't trash latency?

TCP:
- Has Congestion Control!

Does buffer bloat effect the time it takes to transmit a large file? Not really, TCP congestion control will throttle the network to lower dropped packets.

If you want more bandwidth, ignore congestion control, and just keep sending packets.
    - Just isn't worth it in practice.  

> "Forever in a computer is a few seconds"


## -------- Pre Recitation --------
Both papers reference a third paper, about a system called Netalyzr (Kreibich, et al. "Netalyzr: Illuminating the Edge Network". IMC 2010).
What conclusion(s) does Gettys draw from the Netalyzr paper? What conclusion(s) does Allman draw?
What types of experiments does Gettys do? What types of experiments does Allman do?
Do you believe that bufferbloat occurs frequently on the Internet?

Latency:
- Transmission Delay
- Processing Delay
- Queuing Delay

Bottleneck :: smallest bandwidth along a path
- important to have buffers

Throughput: amount of packets in flight which are serviced
- delay: when max amount of packets are serviced, others have to wait

**Bufferbloat**: Make large buffers to prevent dropped packets    
=> delays for waiting on buffers goes waaaayy up.


## TLAs: Three Letter Acronyms
- **AQM**: Active Queue Management

- **TTL**: Time To Live

- **RTT**: Round Trip Time

- **RFC**: Request for comments

- **DSL**: Direct Subscriber Line

- **BDP**: Bandwidth Delay Product

- **CDN**: Content Delivery Network

- **VoIP**: Voice over IP


## IEEE 802.11

## Gettys conclusions
Clearly there cannot be a “correct” static amount of buffering in the global Internet: a self-
adaptive AQM is the only viable long-term solution in any device (including your computer or smart
phone) with a network buffer.

## Allman's Conclusions
Our investigation shows that buffer-
bloat does indeed happen—and more so in residential than non-residential networks. However, the magnitude of the problem as manifest in live traffic is modest.

## --- Reading Questions -----
- **What conclusions does each author draw about bufferbloat?**
Getty draws the conclusion that bufferbloat is extremely complex, and happens at many different places. Thus, no static model of buffering could suffice for a global internet, only adaptive AQM in every smart device with a network buffer could adaptively fit the needs of the internet. While, Allman is more skeptical, claiming no empirical evidence. His paper does acknowledge the existence of bufferbloat, and its effects on residential networks, but his conclusion of its effects is quite different. His study shows that there would be very modest effects by increasing the IW.

- **How do they support those conclusions?**
Getty's are mostly all anecdotal, or are details from his home project. While he does contact relevant people such as managers at Comcast, most of his claims rely on them being intuitively appealing, and not based in empirical reasoning. Allman takes a more skeptical and scientific approach, and begins by viewing large datasets to find empirical data to back up his claims.

- **Why do the two authors draw different conclusions in some cases?**
Getty's experiments are mostly from his home connection and personal machine, while Allman does a much broader analysis on large data sets. Getty also makes conjectures about bufferbloat, without necessarily backing them up with evidence. Allman does a more empirical study, and also finds that residential routing could suffer from buffer bloat, (though he also notes that residential networks also just have a lot more routers). In the end, he also investigates the claim of increasing IW size, and finds this claim to be faulty.
