# Rec 12 : Akamai / CDNs
### March 23 2017
---------------------------
## ----- Class Notes -----
#### Wisdom
1. Hunting and warfare make great frameworks for metaphors when you're going through life.
Research is like hunting. You're walking around broad visioned, until you see a target, and you get tunnel visioned and emotionally charged as you prepare to pull the trigger.  ==> Its like game hunting.
- "why did you leave industry for research"
    - worked for start ups out of college.
    - Didn't like you were always focused on the company/stock and not about yourself.
    - did like that were around many different types of people, not just engineers.
- What separates good from great, is that the great know when its time to finish. (know when to make the kill)

#### Akamai
- Can we replace TCP?
    - it would be nearly impossible
    - Akamai does not use TCP internally, because they have their own infrastructure of 60,000+ servers
    - at the endpoints, TCP is used to branch from akamai network to clients
- dude was running the entire email server for Sri Lanka from his desktop at Stanford
- $$ ==> Cache

- Akamai: Build giant infrastructure of servers around the world, and cache stuff everywhere.
- "Hard engineering" => Stuff that interacts with analog natural phenomena
- "Easy Engineering" => Software builds on top of The Digital Abstraction

- **"The limiting factor in Software Engineering is the human cognitive capability."**

- Akamai hired a bunch of theory based CS people. Then, they bought systems people.
    - anytime someone says the cost of maintenance is going to be too high, dont worry. Only successful software projects will ever _need_ maintenance


- As the internet became more interactive, need more dynamic caching.

Akamai
- First business model: caching static web content
- Then, dynamic serving
- Then, HD Video (volume increased by order of magnitude)
- Applications

There are abstraction boundaries in computer science. Look at JavaScript or x86. They are not ideal, but people will dump millions into optimizing what is behind their abstraction boundary.


louis gerstner - computer business: everyone's goal is to make everyone's systems incompatible.

Business has changed:
- Lower cost of Capital (Sell shares, or Borrow money)
    - Right now interest is so low, its not much above the rate of inflation. Capital is almost free right now.

- Accountability: moralistic sadists use to justify orders.
    - Accountability stifles innovation. "ask for forgiveness, not permission"
    - No one takes risk.
    - Look at the military.

- When you have a terminal and a server, where do you put the functionality?
    - eternal question.

-------------------------------
## ------ Reading Notes -----
**Akamai** pioneered CDNs.
- Akamai delivers 15-20% of all web traffic

Akamai was founded by   Daniel Lewin and Tom Leighton. Lewin was killed on AA11 when it crashed into the north tower of the world trade center. He was the first victim of the 9/11 attacks, as he was stabbed resisting the hijackers. (Technion/MIT)

## ---- Reading Questions ---------

- **What aspect(s) of the Internet's infrastructure is Akamai's platform designed to overcome?**
Akamai aims to alleviate a number of issues. First, as even the largest internet network only accounts for 5% of internet traffic, there is a lot of transferring between networks, and congestion occurs at these peering points. Outages, hidden topology, downfalls of TCP, network errors account for a number of other issues with providing high-throughput and low-latency to many distributed users.

- **How is the platform designed to overcome those aspects?**
Akamai engineered the first CDN to address these challenges. Just like in the RON paper, Akamai uses its network as an internet overlay network. Akamai also uses a proprietary transport protocol in their overlay network instead of TCP. More notably, Akamai leverages EdgeComputing, which maintains many data-centers in different geographic regions, and keep near-by caches of static data to cut down latency.

- **Why is it necessary for Akamai to overcome those aspects?**
It is necessary because the role of the internet in society has changed since its inception, and its most common functionalities are different. IP's 'best effort' policy does not set up reliability, BGP hides topology, TCP suffers greatly from packet loss, and the millions of miles of cables that make the internet possible are susceptible to faults. Reliable high-throughput low-latency connections, ideal for high-quality video streaming / media just don't work very well on the internet's original model.
