# Rec 22:
### Thurs 5/4

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ----- Class Notes ------
- DNSSEC => Domain Name System Security Extensions

- Plays in class: Romeo and Juliet have a man in the middle attack.

## ----- Reading Notes -------

*  From a security standpoint, what does DNSSEC provide? (e.g., confidentially, authentication, etc.)
    - It provides integrity and authentication. For instance, all responses from DNSSEC servers are digitally signed to ensure their integrity. This signature can be checked against an authoritative server, and an AD (authentic data) bit can be added to the response header to indicate this. By using this asymmetric public/private key system, identities are established with more confidence.

*  How does it provide that?
    - Using asymmetric encryption. Specifically, private keys sign requests to provide an authenticated data origin. (note: only signatures are used and nothing is encrypted). The zone has a corresponding public key which can verify resource records (as they are stored as signatures). The trust in the zone is hierarchical and the root has a public key which is available to all resolvers. Resolvers can then check delegation pointers to establish validity of children zones' public keys.

*  Why is DNSSEC necessary (or is it necessary?), and why hasn't it been fully deployed?
    - DNSSEC is not necessary, but an improved DNS is necessary. DNSSEC may not be the ideal solution, as it also opens some issues of its own (like chain of trust problems, key management issues, etc), but it does fix numerous errors with DNS ( like man in the middle attacks, cache poisoning, and some DDoS attacks.). Mainly, the addition of data origins provides a means of detecting man in the middle attacks (but can not prevent unless all parties involved use the DNSSEC protocol.)
