# Rec 23: Botnets
### Tues May 9, 2017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## ----- Class Notes -----

#### Mebroot and Torpig
- Mebroot is a rootkit. It replaces code in the MBR
    - most anti-virus tools run under the operating system / root
    - Mebroot is the _vector_ of infection.

- Torpig is malware

- Domain Flux:
    - get domains from companies that are slow on takedown requests
    - change the domain names frequently, they generate a list then buy dynamically



- Note: Introduce and talk about what _youve_ done, fast.
    - Most security engineers have 2 machines. One only visits trusted websites
- Professors lead the university. Department head is the top job, not president
- university:
    - provide next generation
    - provide new science
- if you work at a company, you want to be in the top job type to succeed
    - you dont want to be a software developer in a hospital

Where hackers thrive:
- Smart People
- Education
- Not a lot of opportunity

- to be a hacker takes tremendous discipline
- Hackers need to think adversarially
- Hackers shouldn't be too ambitious  
- America 'legalizes' corruption. Paying fees for expedited service or cut in line would be corruption in some places, and business in others

-  Security is never part of an MVP (minimum viable product) sadly..


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## ------ Reading Notes --------
Botnets are used to:
- send spam
- launching DDoS attacks
- stealing personal data from bots or spying

__Torpig__:   
- Data harvesting botnet
- Distributed via Mebroot rootkit (replaces MBR)


## ----- Reading Questions ------

- What does it mean for a computer to be a "bot"?
    - A computer is a bot if it has been infected with some sort of malicious code, or malware, which allows it to be controlled and effectively 'hijacked' by an adversary to carry out nefarious tasks.

- In Torpig, how does a machine become a bot, and how does it receive instructions to carry out attacks?
    - First, a user must navigate to a legit, but infected website which has HTML tags that fetch remote JavaScript code. This code is then executed clientside and attempts to download an executable file. If the executable file is executed, it injects a .dll file into system processes that have full access to the machine. From there, the .dll writes Mebroot code into the machine's MBR partition, and restarts the machine. Upon reboot, Mebroot has complete control of the system, and requests malicious code to be downloaded from C&C servers.

- Why is it difficult to prevent a machine from becoming a bot? Why is it difficult to simply block bots from accessing the C&C server?
    - Foremost, people do not yet have proper intuition about how to be safe when using a computer like they do when using other tools like a car. Botnets are dangerous because they are hard to detect. Once they have written to the MBR, they have privilege above that of the operating system, and therefore cannot be easily detected by anti-virus scans. It may not be apparent to the user that their machine has been infected. Also, Torpig using a technique called domain-flux, in which each bot has a domain generation algorithm. If someone was to block one of the C&C servers, Torpig could simply generate another to try and contact.
