# Rec 9: RON:
### Thurs March 9 2017
### Martin Rinard

## Class Notes
#### RON: Gives you characteristic about paths.

- Extensibility: good word.
    - taking future usage into consideration.
- DLA : double letter acronym
    - IP:: Internet Protocol
        - IP packets can be sent [0,1,2,3....] times
- TLA = triple letter acronym
    - TCP:: Transmission Control Protocol   
        - --> Byte Stream --> all bytes in stream are delivered in order exactly once.
        - If theres no network, it can't do this.
        - Sender Spec: sending _n_ bytes.
        - Receiver: receive k <= n bytes.
        - Internet doesnt know TCP exists. TCP is implemented on top of IP.
        -
    - UDP: User Datagram Protocol:
        - Unreliable
    - RON

- "the longer a system exists, the more cruftier it gets"
    - cruft:badly designed, unnecessarily complicated, or unwanted code or software.

- **RON Paper**
    - Assumption of paper: Internet sucks now.
    - BGP: 'There can be a route from A->B without you knowing about it'
    - RONs exploit secret peer routes
    - **Overlay Network**:
        - built on top of Internet
        - spec doesnt include IP/TCP
        - Network built ontop of network
    - RON nodes talk to all other RON nodes
    -

Story about the internet:
- Rinard was grad stud at Stanford
- entire east coast vanishes from internet
    - Back-hoe in Illinois cut a fibre optic.
    -  
### Specification v Implementation
- Spec: identifies guarantees between server and clients
- Specs should never discuss the implementation specifics.

- Goal Of Class: Be a little bit less ignorant

Latency v Bandwidth
- Latency can be arbitrarily long, and Bandwidth can be arbitarily high.
- But, they are _usually_ inversely related.


## ----- Reading notes ------
RON: Resilient Overlay Network
- October 2001
- DARPA / Navy
- 2-50 nodes
    - anything else takes excessive bandwidth
- Doesn't hide topology
- Better fault tolerance
- each node forwards data on behalf of any 2 nodes in the RON
> - The main goal of RON is to enable a group of nodes to commu-
nicate with each other in the face of problems with the underlying
Internet paths connecting them.   
> - The second goal of RON is to integrate routing and path selec-
tion with distributed applications more tightly than is traditionally
done.The goal of RON is to improve



## ------ Reading Questions ------
* **What is the goal of RON?**
Given that the internet is using BGP, which hides a lot of the surrounding topology, as well as the fact that internet ASes are independent and do not share internal links, many instances of physical path redundancy occur. Faults in the network cause outages that last many minutes. The RON system allows a fully connected group of nodes to oversee and collaboratively asses underlying problems.

* **How was it designed to meet this goal?**
RON uses a fully connected network which is aggressively probing and monitoring all the paths and nodes in the network. Doing this, it maintains a better overall image of the network's topology. It uses this to better route around performance failures.

* **Why do we need RON? (Or why do the authors believe that we need RON?)**
Faults in the network can cause long lasting outages, and there are very frequently performance failures. Today, as the internet is transitioning to cloud-based servers that all run from the same location, outages could also be quite widespread. This system would help the internet continue to scale.
